1) STATEMENT :
Write a blog on difference between document & window objects

   OUTPUT : 
Document Object:

The document object represents a web page that is loaded in the browser. 

By accessing the document object, we can access the element in the HTML page.
 
With the help of document objects, we can add dynamic content to our web page. 

The document object can be accessed with a window.document or just document.

Each HTML document ( or any other type of document like XML) which is sent by the server in response to a client request 
and loaded into a window is a document object. Document contains the content of a webpage displayed in a window.

The document object resides within the Window object, so document is a property of window object.

The document is loaded after the window and it contains the contents of the webpage.

The document object contains properties like URL, title, contentType, documentElement etc.

The document object is very significant as we can manipulate the content of a webpage using document object properties, 
in DOM (Document object model), document is the root element.

In DOM, all HTML elements(say <p> <h1> <h3> etc for  HTML ducments) are defined as objects. We can access these elements and
also changes the

Some important properties and methods of document object are as follows : 
-- document.documentElement : returns the root element of the document.
-- document.doctype : gives the type of document declared, say HTML or XML or SVG etc 
-- document.getElementById() : the method is commonly used to access an element of an document using the id of element.
-- document.getElementById().innerHTML: innerHTML property can be used to get or change any HTML element
-- document.childElementCount : gives the number of child elements 

 In Document object Model, we can find elements, create or update element, set values to an element, delete or replace elements. 
We can do this using the properties and methods of a document object. 

Window Object:

The window object is the topmost object of the DOM hierarchy. It represents a browser window or frame that displays the contents of the webpage. 
Whenever a window appears on the screen to display the contents of the document, the window object is created.

Window object is at the Top of the hierarchy and is the outmost element of the object hierarchy.
That is, Window is the parent object of all other objects including document, screen, console etc.
ex. Each tab displaying a certain webpage in a browser is considered a window object.

Window refers to the browser window(tab) in which a webpage content is displayed. Window is the first to get loaded into a 
brpwser and window object contains information about the window such as, 
-- width and height of a window, 
-- the type of device in which the window is opened,
-- scrollbars 
-- screen size etc.

There are many important window object properties such as,
closed: window.closed returns a boolean value representing whether window is closed.

console : It is an object in window that provides methods for logging information to the browser's console. 
          ex. log() is a method in console object. This is mainly used for debugging not for the user.
          window.console.log("hi") // Output: hi 

history :  provides an interface for manipulating the browser session history 
           history has methods such as go(), back(), forward(), pushState() etc 
           window.history.go(-1);  // loads the previously loaded webpage in this window, ie.pressing back button

location : This property gives information about the current location ( webpage) 
           window.location  // gives information about the webpage displayed in current tab/window

document, screen, frames, menubar , navigator are some other important properties of window object. 

Window properties are accessed using the global variable window. Using this variable "window" we access all objects and 
functions residing in it. ex. window.document.URL, window.screen 

Window object also contains important methods such as, 
print() - opens a Print dialog box to print the current webpage
alert() - displays an alert message ex. window.alert("hi") // an alert box displays the message "hi"
resizeTo() - resize the window 
scroll() - scroll to top or left or any x,y co-ordinates. 

<iframe> tags in HTML are treated as a separate window within a window.
